Introduction by Silvia Pfeiffer

Open Media Developers Plenary

This is a continuation of the FOMS conferences we've been having since 2007, including last year's meeting associated with OVC in 2010.

Around-the-room participant introductions

Silvia Pfeiffer - here reprensenting Google, working on accessibility in browsers
expectations: good conversations about WebVTT and other accessibilities

Aaron Crumly (sp?) - openindie.com
Working on "co-create" film crew and location scouting, crowd-sourcing film production resources. Looking for a ruby on rails developer to demonstrate what can be done in film on the web.

Roger MacDonald - archive.org
Semantic schema on online video, television, candidate background information, and the like. Particularly interested in using sub

Forest Mars - manhattan neighbor network
Largest community tv network in the world.
Preserving content from a quantitative and a qualitative point of view. Curiatorial aspects of video. Evolution of Television vs Internet, and not making the same mistakes we did in tv with business interests.

Eric Pettijon (sp?) - Realtime delivery of media clips, hiring

Chris Rogers - Web developer, working on "Land of opportunity" film project
Here to learn about popcorn.js

Zack Ozer - Long tail video (jwplayer)
Talk about how to make video work for all platforms. Make the best user experience, metrics, and all that jazz.

Philip Jägenstedt (foolip) - Opera Software
Core developer on HTML <video>, currently working on <track> and WebVTT. Will fix Opera bugs for chocolate.

Pablo Schklowsky - Long tail video
works on jwplayer, consistent experience between html5 and flash

...Williams??? - Northhampton community television
Find a good way to implement a front-end for video upload and editing

Michael Dale - kaltura/wikimedia
Working on player, find out what's happening in open source video

Eric Carlson - Apple
Lead developer from Apple on WebKit HTML5 audio/video. Involved with standardization at W3C from the begininng and involved with accessibility over the last couple of years. Interested in all of those things and hope to see <track> element and captions show up in the wild

Tracey Jaquith - archive.org
Big library and digital storage, starting to record TV. Interested in players, interoperability, editors, universalsubtitles.org. Main storage eng, migrating to video.

Richardo duod (?) - @mrdoob 
Eye candy, show, google creative labs work. Want to talk to developers fixing tools. created three.js

Mark Watson - Netflix
Make sure HTML5 grows into the kind of thing we can use for our service. Evolve for embedded, set-top, tvs.

Tim Terriberry - Mozilla, Xiph.Org
Lead of the theora project, now working on VP8, Opus. Getting Opus and WebRTC shipped in browsers. Find out what's going on and hear platform problems.

Anant Narayanan - Mozilla
Implement and standardize video in the browser. WebRTC and device API. Get everyone on the same page re device access. Permission models, etc.

Jan Linden - Google
WebRTC project. Mostly interested in feedback for the web platform

Ralph Giles (rillian) - Mozilla, Xiph.org
Works on Ogg, WebM, WebVTT, WebRTC, ...

Philippe Normand - WebKit gstreamer backend, web audio api. Interested in WebRTC and Accessibility

Thomas van der Stichele - GStreamer
Flumotion streaming server, WebM and Theora support. Recently started live transcoding. Streaming the conference today. Interested in develoiper connections.

Jasmine Langridge - YouTube, web interfaces for tv
Interested in WebGL, what people are excited in.

Ian Small - Talkbox
Working on f2f cloud video. interested in webrtc to make it more open.

Luca Barbato - libav (nee ffmpeg)
Interested in network protocols, codecs. Interested in webrtc background. Please use libav directly rather than using wrappers.

Richard Leider - client side scripting at youtube
Metrics, adaptive streaming, see how the sausage is made

Greg Schechter - YouTube
better xp ux

Matt Ward - YouTube
Adaptive streaming, client side flash player. here to learn about html5

Jedehan - 
XMPP messaging. Interested in documenting conventions for participatory media

Mark Boas - Happy Worm
50 % of the jplayer team. (jquery plugin). Very interested in audio as well. working on hyper-audio with link text in spoken word.

Brian, O'Hagan - Columbia U
Media infrastructure and repositoris. Web video tools to collect, analyse, annotate video. Interested in codecs and format standards, accessibiltiy

Nick Fox-Geig - animator
Interested in Kinect camera. Home motion capture.

Colin Clark - fluid project
Open source designer/UX/usability collaboration. Video artist and composer.

Ethan Hugg - Cisco
RTCWeb references and standards, real time video

Chris Blizzard - Mozilla
Happy to talk about WebRTC< HTML5 video, etc.

Cole Gillespie - Mozilla News, IBM Blade center @theCole
Mozilla news lab finalist, popcorn.js contributor, interested in geolocation, changing the way we consume media and creating journalist tools to discover new people via geo enabled social media.

Pippin Lee - student from toronto
Mozilla News Lab, student journalism, teaching students how to use tools.

Aaron Colwell - Google
Chrome HTML5 video, adding Adaptive streaming apis. Want to meet collaborators in real life, standardize with other browsers.

Frank Galligan - Google
WebM spec and tools.

John Koleszar - Google
libvpx maintainer, making realtime vp8 work better for webrtc. Share more about what we're doing, run our project more openly

Anna Cavender - Google
Accessibilty. Implementing track and webtv in Chrome

Andrew - Google
ditto

David Rice -AudioVisual preservation
Application of opensource video in service of archive preservation

Greg Maxwell - Xiph.org
Ogg, Theora, Opus codecs

Xavier M - 
Organize and index all government meetings, searchable video. Learn about webrtc for remote participation

John Luther - webm project manager
Has free t-shirts. At FOMS last year. Interested in ffvp8, adaptive streaming. Things do come out of this meeting. :) Would like people to start working on xvp8

Jonathan Hill - Pace U
Supporter of the conference. Interested in Open Gov't and open patent. Getting web media support for that. Pace create labs. Hoping to make some good connections, brought student coders.

Jean-François Fortin - pitivi
Open source video editor. Interested in user interface ideas, talk about sharing technology and web integration, upload to sites like youtube.

Ben Schwartz - Xiph.Org, student
Fan, love to talk about codecs and algorithms, low power devices, OLPC.

Dave Riche - 
Database narrative editing suite. Porting flash apps to HTML5, particularly for iOS. Automated transcoding for different devices, ffmpeg.

Peter Pinch - WGBH @pdpinch
Interested in archive interopability, accessibility

Nathanael Lécaudé  - studio imaginaire -  Montreal
 Open technology for artistic software, audio editing, OLPC (tam tam programmer)
 
 Simon - studio Imaginaire
 Interested in bridges between open technologies and new narratives
 
 Abram Stern (Aphid) - UCSC, Metavid
 Work with gov't video to digitize and put online as open video with metadata
 
 George C - openvideoproductions llc
 Record conferences, encode and upload as CC-licensed open video as a professional service. Researching how to do that better.
 openmeetings.org - metavid install, non-profit direction
 
 Douglas Campbell -IT student at Pace U
 
 ?? - Pace U student
 
 Julie ?? - Pace U CS student

Michael Cornell - Pace U student

Silvia Pfeiffer plenary conclusion

Schedule at http://www.openmediadevelopers.org/pmwiki.php/Main/Schedule

WebM metrics scheduled for tomorrow in room 303 in parallel with open video editors

Please update the schedule with breakouts as they happens. Reserve rooms through etherpad.

On Monday we'll be at the Events Center around the corner. That's the official hack space during the conference.

Separation of "technology" and "open media developer" tracks

Web Audio API - competing proposals
Streaming server implementations - Luca, Thomas
Media Stream API proposal - browser people should talk about that

