Important references for this session 
(feel free to add crowd-funding, micropayment, alternative currency links here)

http://cl1p.net/ovcsession

http://bitcoin.org/
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bitcoin
https://btc.io/
http://vodo.net/
http://flattr.com/
http://www.kickstarter.com/
http://rockethub.com
http://onlyonetv.com ["The Bitcoin Show" in 12 languages]
http://bitcoinnavigator.com [Bitcoin Brick&Motor Locator]
http://bitsyn.com [NYC Bitcoin Consultancy]
http://BitInstant.com [Instant Xfers for the Bitcoin Economy] 
"coffee and power"

http://freecoin.ch/
http://media.ccc.de/browse/conferences/camp2011/cccamp11-4450-imagine_the_future_of_money-en.html

http://pixomania.net/money/firecoin
https://www.bitinstant.com/
https://mtgox.com/

Solution to Jay's problem of coins 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FreedomBox
http://www.freedomboxfoundation.org/

People and projects involved
(Add your name, links to your projects here, if you like)
Joe Miller, http://joemillerjd.com - @joemillerjd
Celeste North, http://nuflick.com - celeste@nuflick.com
Per Thulin, http://flattr.com http://www,youtify.com - per@flattr.com
Pablo J. Varona Borges, "Centro Popular de Transparencia Gubernamental" - pabjvar@gmail.com
Yifu Guo, BitSyncom, yifu.guo@bitsyn.com
Charlie Shren, BitInstant Project, charlie@bitinstant.com
Andrew Lee, Mt. Gox, andrew.lee@mtgox.com
Fran Ilich, Eyebeam - Spacebank http://spacebank.org ilich@sabotage.tv
Bruce Wagner, OnlyOneTV, The Bitcoin Show http://onlyonetv.com
Daniel Liss, http://pouringdown.tv
e.g. Holmes Wilson, http://getmiro.com http://universalsubtitles.org/

###

Possibile projects / primary themes

Make bitcoin easier to use.  Better usability, wider adoption, ability to send money across different platforms 

Make a system where virtual goods / game mechanics / transparency / social psychology encourages donations/payments

Make it so we can donate to anyone (even collaborators/remixers, even if we don't know who they are)

Creators tools.  What's it like from creator's perspective.  Licensing.

What's the economic incentive for people to embrace a new way of financing creative work?  Broad strategy for making people want to use these things?

Will it work?  Is donation-support a viable way to support artistic creation?







#####




Use cases for alternative currencies and compensation

The session will be divided in broad group discussions and smaller group brainstorming. The idea is to provoke a participatory atmosphere. 

Holmes Wilson - Intro
Miro Co-founder
Universal Subtitles Co-founder
Bitcoin Introduction: A more accesible and open way of value for creators in the web. 

Group Introduction
Name, Who are you? What do you do? Dreams?

Dan Stevens: Educator, Media technologist. Content Streaming on America's Democracy. Paywall? 
Joe Miller: Media... We focus in african americans. Look poverty as humanitarian crisis. Generate innovation, in low income communities to make america improve.
Celeste: Mexican entrepreneur. Film, never got distributed . Created a Startup called nuflick, filmmakers can upload their materials for free and rent them in streaming at a low cost. NuFlick doesn't buy distribution rights.
Charlie: Make transfers to, from, and interxchanges instant for buying and selling bitcoins. Get rid of dollars!
Andrew: a lot of experience with video. Hope to see great projects.
Mark: Curious in currency models.
Darren: Interested in startups in the entertainment industry
Dominic:  Wondering in compulsory licenses. 
...:Per Thulin: Company Flttr. Online music player Youtify.
Steven : Consultant. Startup project independent film industry
...: Interested in flttr. Free content and piracy. How the creators make money?
Aaron: Four eyed monsters creator. Platform openindie. Working in new films. 
Chana: Littlebiggirl. Communities off and online
...: studying music videos and write in a blog that talks about distribution.
...: Composer film maker. First feature film, looking into how years of work can be funded. 
Ben: Corporate Work in NBC. The future of the company is? Models like these...
...: Fashion ecommerce, viable monetary fund.
...: Bitcoin navigator. Goal virtual bitcoin to physical world.
Jonathan:  Open patents projects.
Kelly:
...: designer, Webahead.
Fran Ilich: Small virtual community investment bank. New currency, sustained by online community. Eyebeam fellow.
...: Oral histories on people that use medical marihuana.
,,,:
Warren : Technology policy initiatives. 
:introduced to bitcoin few eeks ago. Interested in the mining aspect of it. 
: knowyourecology.net
: professor in media studies. 


Exercise
Compensation models on open online creation. Things that should happen? Directions that we can go in. It could be a catch phrase like : I'm part of an organization that has a music player how can we make money out of this. Or I'm a youtube content creator. Reflect in directions that this type of work can go in...

What are the dream scenarios or use cases for donations and micropayments?

What needs to exist?  What needs to get better?

Break into groups: 3 ppl per group.  Here's what groups came up with:

[paste your notes here when done]

Monetizing the web

Cover charge vs. Tipjar

Paywalls might be a failure, while tipjar seems better?

Other ways to monetize the web: everything is a service, give away the content.

Build commuinity access to community, sell an acess fee for the community.  


Bitcoin, what's standing in the way of mass adoption of Bitcoin? #1 security #2 liquidity (ease of buying, aka as easy as buying coffee) #3 currency risk

Super Group Nr 1

- How to flattr a youtube video? Should the uploader get the flattr or the original content author?

But  how do remixers get paid directly?  If they're just an intermediary,  how do they get compensated.  If they're creators how do we weight the  value?

- How to finance music artists? Donations + concert tickets?

The big problem is make people pay. The only way is either creating a exchange culture, without expecting a reward inmediately. 

That's the reason behind flattr. To provoke this change to happen. 
Kickstarter model is much more effective for these reasons. 
Is the kickstarter model, could we implemented in other ways? Its an unsustainable model (kickstarter). 
 Its hard to count on people on donation. Doesn't mean that it will be the way of getting the most amount. 
 
W
 It get to a interesting paradox, social 
 
 the audience creates for free and watch for free. that's working well. Flattr makes it interesting. Where as the other model is not compatible with the phenomenon. 

Virtual Goods and psychology of donations

A gradation of financial participation (you get more access based on a larger contribution)
 
why people think that virtual goods are valuable? 
 
 Curious in virtual goods role?  How to marry the behavior between virtual goods and quality creative goods? 
 People pay for "stupid stuff" :) online just for fun!  So why don't they pay for content.

Kickstarter has been really successful with the prizes.

Add game mechanics or points to Flattr, or other donation systems.

If the creator could know and customize their site for somebody who had donated.  (But that's a kind of paywall)

It's okay to have different levels of return from the creator, it's positive, not necessarily negative the way a paywall might be

Flattr is like busking(sp?) which we see in NYC all the time.  Talking to folks who live off that and learning about how it functions might be a good approach. 

Maybe we're thinking too narrowly about it, could be donations of resources (studio space)

Farmville duck sales vs. washington post print edition sales?

Ease of use

Micropayments should be clickable (ease). I need to set up, it should be easier than that.



I believe that Flattr hacks that economic system that we work right now, by creating a model that it could be applied to any currency, either trade system as well as real currency (even bitcoins). Rather than standarizing another currency that sins for its same flaws.


- How to finance movie makers? Donations + movie tickets.

- Donations, paywalls, ads, is there a 4th way to make a living? Communism? ;)

Introduction to flattr - video

- It would be great to have flattr accept bitcoin. 
Everyone in flattr has their own opinion. We don't accept bitcoin because of the legal implications.

(╯°□°）╯︵ ┻━┻ Group
- how to get people use to any type of micropayment system? donation driven in particular.

it's gotta be easy.

the social part of kickstartr is you know what you're getting, there's the prize.  that's like the virtual good that you pay for.  This is a big key.

Donations were really important to an open source project with a huge server.  When they made their bandwidth use and costs transparent, people would always donate enough to ensure survival.  Transparency is key.

Like a feature request list.

Users know what they're paying for and know what they're getting.


- Bitcoin usibility? bitcoin only perks to create liquidity.

Example: stuff/services you can only buy/use with bitcoin

- Bitcoin's second generation software to improve UI/Ux.

Bitcoin development community really focusing on usability now. 

- a method to obtain Bitcoin without mining or buying with USD.

And if you can buy the things you need with bitcoin, there's less currency risk.

How do you make it possible for anybody to get access to Bitcoin.  The focus has been on people who already are users, but it should be on everyone who isn't already a user.

Hording vs Spending


[ Hurriquake Group ]
Monetizing the Web
   web content
Cover Charge vs. Tip Jar
Everything as a Service
   community you build around it
   product is access to the community 
Adoption of Bitcoin
Monetize through Vertical Services
      let people have the thing they want
      monitize related tools, ad sales, etc.




BRAINSTORM THINGS WE NEED (Arin, Tom, Jake, Celeste, Chana, Shakir)

Easy to use to use tool kit for creators in one place.

A way to sustain ones self producing their own work.

A funding effort that can scale.  (a few cents or even a few thousand dollars can't always pay the full bill)

Financial solution that doesn't require philanthropy (it would be nice to have a foundation that opens up the participation)

Solutions that supports the artist.

Audience paying to contribute to (they might pay more if they could participate)

Proceeds needs to match what it costs to make the work.

Sponsors need to have to pony up more money.

Over throw iTunes and cut out the middle man.

A shift in culture, encourage people to want to pay.  Through flattr, directly, however.

A ecosystem of creation and consuming that works in harmony. (create an experience in which money exchanges hands)
    

Need to be able to create an experience for people where money changes hand.


Distribution tools to measure audience demand and get indie films theaters



Aligning the producers utopia with the audiences utopia (the dream of having access to every song, film, thing with the creator's utopia of making a living off their work)

Barter! Fair trades for things

Move away from the abstract attempt at decimal point representation of value. What if value was represented as just value. 

We need a fundamental new understanding of what value is, how it's exchanged and the organizational intelligence that is exists when transactions retain value into the future.  (Money is just a memory of transactions that happened over past decades)

Focal Points

licensing 
contextualized transactions (location, real-time circumstance)
consumer choices


####

Best world scenario

In developing online currencies we should try to avoid replicating conditions that brought economic inequality

Currency today based on a framework that existed before that is very different than what we have now.

Ability to save and invest

What kind of regulations can we expect?

How do corporations engage with alternative currencies?  

We want a currency that would facilitate investment

Constraints of legal and regulatory hurdles

Concerned that people would manipulate alternative currencies or compensation models and take advantage

Moving from sampling models to direct payments.  Remove the need for intermediary platform.



Direct compensation model's effect on advertising

What will existing companies or institutions (cable, television, US treasury) do to lock down.

####
Small Group (Joe, Eric, Dennis)
Not a lot of existing experience with this because this is our first encounter with Bitcoin—so difficult to find the problem areas—so we expanded discussion to a best world scenario that will allow as many stakeholders to make money as possible.
We began by stating right up front that in developing online currencies, we should avoid replicating the conditions that have perpetuated economic inequality.  Will people have the ability to save and invest new currencies, and what kinds of constraints on developing a new currency can we expect from regulators and from the global economic scenario.
Corporate: How do corporations engage with it?  It seems to make sense for individuals.  But how does it make sense for corporations.
Best-Case Scenario
Started from the premise that it be based on an economic philosophy that would facilitate internet transaction and incentivize investment.
Then discussed how to facilitate that:
So discussed some of the constraints as far as both the legal regulatory hurdles that would be involved, and compatibility with existing models.
We were particularly concerned with the likelihood that people would manipulate currency and take advantage.  
We ended discussing not just exchange currency, but also currencies that determine the value of content to advertisers.  Things like radio and television ratings.  We discussed whether compensation models should move away from the sampling method of determining audience size, to a one-to-one relationship between viewers and the advertisers.
For example, we discussed the possibility of   world in which artists would be paid directly for their content, thus removing the need for an intermediary platform such as Pandora or YouTube.  But we ran into a barrier, when we tried to understand how remixers of content would get paid under this model.  In this framework, should remixers be considered intermediaries, or creators.  If they are considered intermediaries, what incentive would they have to remix content.  If they are considered creators, how do we weigh the value of their art against the value of the underlying works?
But despite these ideas, we still had an  overall concern with incumbents—whether they are traditional television networks, multichannel video providers… or the treasury--locking down the Internet or preventing innovation in the development of new online currencies that are deemed to have gone too far. 
Overall, it’s going to take a lot longer than 3 hours to address every issue that comes up.  But we see this as a starting point, and look forward to keeping up the dialogue.
####

How can we do new currency on the web?

Whatever it is, it has to be widespread

Standardizing one currency needs some kind of central authority

The way your business model works depends on whether you already have a community or whether you're just starting

User never gets pissed off with the donation model.  They pay for what they want.  That gives the user a lot of respect.  (users can get pissed off at a monthly fee if they don't use it / don't like it)





