Video Archives:   Life After Production

[Was “Public Media Metadata”]

 
 
Description

Now that you are a successful producer, your work is starting to pile up.  How do you organize it so you can manage the growing number of files?  If you want to share any of your brilliant materials on-line, how do you present it so people can find it?  What options can help you serve it up so people can use it?  And once they are using it, how do you get their feedback to make your content even more findable and usable?

 
This session will outline how to extend the life-cycle of your programs and help you understand how to make them ‘discoverable,’ findable, and increasingly usable over time.   Particular focus on -

    What metadata standards are helpful discovery?
        PBCore
        TEI
        Scema.org?
    What are best practices for exposing metadata?
    What tools are you using for discovery? Tools for re-use?
        AvSAP, IMAP, Presto
    Which APIs are helpful?
        OAI-PMH, oEmbed, unAPI, OpenGraph
    Which video formats are most helpful for re-use?
        H.264? WebM? JPEG2000?
    What tools are people using for re-use?
        Omeka
        popcorn.js
        Zeega
            
#  #  # 
 
Introductions
 
            Overview of session – Nan & Peter
 
            Survey the room – what experiences people have, what they are interested in
 
 
S & M – Standards and metadata (PBCore and other schema)
    Nan Rubin –  introduction of metadata standards
 general overview of what's happening in the field.
    
 
   Chris Lacinak -  technical issues in asset management
                        American Archive – metadata design
 
Case studies
    Peter Pinch - Open Vault and Columbia University
 
Practical steps and problem solving
            [ Nicole Martin on PBCore & Democracy Now -- case  study]
            TBD
 
Resources and tools
            Peter Pinch
            Nan Rubin
            Chris Lacinak



each presenter - 10 minutes


 Bring your technical questions, metadata problems and archive questions, along with sample catalog records and experiences to share.  
I would frame this to begin, using the American Archive Inventory project as a reference point, to talk about lack of openness as a result of insufficient intellectual control, and the need to obtain intellectual control in order to manage and make this content accessible. Tie into AVCC and NFAI projects which focus on community cataloging. Standardization as one path to openness. With regard to technology we are currently using Omeka for a project that looks at community cataloging across multiple collections.

I would also talk about the lack of standardization around time-based description and the need for such a thing (shout out to popcorn js) in order to fully realize the value of audiovisual objects. Trend within search platforms and asset management systems toward this, though disappointingly crude still.


    
Presenters will include:

            Peter Pinch -  WGBH Interactive and Open Vault

            Nan Rubin - Community Media Services, Preserving Digital Public Television

           [ Nicole Martin – Archivist, Human Rights Watch, Formerly at Democracy Now!]

            Chris Lacinak – AV Preservation Solutions

            Others TBA

 
Nicole cannot attend.  Others TBA..
 

Outcomes

The session will provide an opportunity for hands-on problem-solving on video archive issues relating to long-term access and use, with examples of diverse use-cases and introduction to many tools and resources in the field. The goal is to help provide the means for producers to create an appropriate archive and access plan for their own videos .

